chore: export FPD without bbn chain (#286)
babylonchain/finality-provider: docs/finality-provider-export.md

# Finality Provider Export

Finality providers are responsible for voting at a finality round on top of CometBFT that is powered by BTC stake.

> Similar to any native PoS validator, a finality provider can receive voting power delegations from BTC stakers, and

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/9917b4e1cb4b4e70a06d887f89be0ef1d3983852

through their voting power provide economic security to the underlying PoS protocol.
In this document,
we explore how someone can create a finality provider and export details about it in JSON format.

> ## Requirements

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/6e5ef32bc2451fa38ca548e6645a4d4323a52148

- [eotsd](https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider)

> - [fpd](https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider)

Author: what do you think about linking it ? https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/ef56bc4a456fa04a0b0252ebde483b2a8c10e5df

This command connects with the eots manager daemon process, creates one key and produces
the finality provider export information.

> Obs.: This command does not send a transaction to babylon chain `babylond tx btcstaking create-finality-provider`.

This command also has several flag options.:

- `--key-name` mandatory as it identifies the name for the key to use on fpd creation.
- `--chain-id` mandatory as it specifies the chain ID to be used in the context.
- `--home` flag needs to be the same as used in the `fpd init` command,
to load the configuration.
- `--passphrase` the password used to encrypt the key.
- `--hd-path` the hd derivation path of the private key.
- `--comission` the commission charged from btc stakers rewards, default is `0.05` 5%.
- Multiple flags are used for description and identification of the finality provider
  - `--moniker` nickname of the finality provider.
  - `--identity` optional identity signature (ex. UPort or Keybase).
  - `--website` optional website link.
  - `--security-contact` optional email for security contact.
  - `--details` any other optional detail information.

```shell

> $ fpcli export-finality-provider --home ./export-fp/fpd --key-name finality-provider \

Reviewer: Tbh I feel the above sections are not relevant to this doc, whose focus is exporting a finality provider to JSON format.

So probably

- The above sections could be merged to `docs/finality-provider.md`
- The doc related to exporting command could be merged to `README.md`

Wdyt?

Author: I think the idea for this `docs/finality-provider-export.md` file is to have instructions for finality providers on how they can create and export their data to register themselves without a bbn chain active

One thought is to receive this registration by pull requests in a github repository, but I believe it would be another repository

# Finality Provider Export

Finality providers are responsible for voting at a finality round on top of CometBFT that is powered by BTC stake.
Similar to any native PoS validator, finality providers can receive voting power delegations from BTC stakers, and
through their voting power provide economic security to the underlying PoS protocol.
In this document,
we explore how someone can create a finality provider and export details about it in JSON format.

## Prerequisite

### Install binaries

[Follow these instructions](../README.md#2-installation) to install the binaries.

- `eotsd`
- `fpd`

> - `fpcli`

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

> ### Setup EOTS

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

The eots is responsible for managing EOTS keys, producing EOTS randomness,
and using them to produce EOTS signatures.
Each finality provider needs to provide public randomness.
So, to export one finality provider it is needed to register a new key.

To initialize the eots work directory, run `eotsd init`. It creates in the default

> home location, unless `--home` flag is specified.

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

```shell
$ eotsd init --home ./export-fp/eots
$ ls ./export-fp/eots
data/  eotsd.conf  logs/
```

> Creates the config file and two directories for logs and data.

After the proper configuration, start the etos daemon with the command `eotsd start`,
The home folder should point to the work directory previously created with `eotsd init`.

```shell
$ eotsd start --home ./export-fp/eots
2024-04-17T16:52:10.553893Z     info    Metrics server is starting      {"addr": "127.0.0.1:2113"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554021Z     info    RPC server listening    {"address": "127.0.0.1:12582"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554061Z     info    EOTS Manager Daemon is fully active!
```

> Starts the eots process that can be turned down after the finality provider is exported
> (run all commands of this file).

> ### Setup fpd

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

The fpd is reposible for monitoring for new Babylon blocks, committing public
randomness for the blocks it intends to provide finality signatures for,
and submitting finality signatures. To just create one finality provider and
export his information, there is no need to connect to babylon chain, just
initialize the working directory for the finality provider config.
To initialize the fpd work directory, run `fpd init`. It creates

> in the default home location, unless `--home` flag is specified.

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

- `--key-name` mandatory as it identifies the name for the key to be created.
- `--chain-id` mandatory as it specifies the chain ID to be used for context
creation of the key.
- `--home` flag needs to be the same as used in the `fpd init` command,
to load the configuration.
- `--keyring-backend` specifies the keyring options, any of `[file, os, kwallet, test, pass, memory]`
are available, by default `test` is used.
- `--passphrase` sets a password to encrypt the keys, this is a optional flag with no defaults.
- `--hd-path` defines the hd path to use for derivation of the private key.

```shell
$ fpd keys add --home ./export-fp/fpd --chain-id babylon-1 --key-name finality-provider
New key for the consumer chain is created (mnemonic should be kept in a safe place for recovery):
{
  "name": "finality-provider",
  "address": "bbn1d54vq462hyh0jj07hmxrn2p59p4axn5mwlzqeu",
  "mnemonic": "bad mnemonic actress issue error swap sphere excuse anxiety machine meat immense rebuild adapt color push polar decorate poverty material skin wear battle zebra"
}
```

> Creates one key pair identified by the key name `finality-provider`

> > Store safely the mnemonic generated

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

> ## Creation & Export of Finality provider

Author: done at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/503d663df53b4c991a0670dc21a7d0f43704265e

Similar to any native PoS validator, finality providers can receive voting power delegations from BTC stakers, and
through their voting power provide economic security to the underlying PoS protocol.
In this document,
we explore how someone can create a finality provider and export details about it in JSON format.

## Prerequisite

### Install binaries

[Follow these instructions](../README.md#2-installation) to install the binaries.

- `eotsd`: EOTS manager daemon to create and manage EOTS keys for each finality provider and provide finality signatures.
- `fpd`: Finality provider daemon to host the finality provider instance.
- `fpcli`: User interface of the finality provider that requires `eotsd` or `fpd` is running.

### Setup EOTS manager daemon

We need the EOTS manager daemon (`eotsd`) to create and manage EOTS keys for each
finality provider. To initialize the `eotsd` work directory, run `eotsd init`.
It creates the default home location, unless `--home` flag is specified.

```shell
$ eotsd init --home ./export-fp/eots
$ ls ./export-fp/eots
data/  eotsd.conf  logs/
```

> Creates the config file and two directories for logs and data.

> After the proper configuration, start the etos daemon with the command `eotsd start`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the proper configuration, start the eots daemon with the command `eotsd start`.
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/c24afebdef4c435f69b345989989efda404ff596

The home folder should point to the work directory previously created with `eotsd init`.

```shell
$ eotsd start --home ./export-fp/eots
2024-04-17T16:52:10.553893Z     info    Metrics server is starting      {"addr": "127.0.0.1:2113"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554021Z     info    RPC server listening    {"address": "127.0.0.1:12582"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554061Z     info    EOTS Manager Daemon is fully active!
```

> Starts the eots process that can be turned down after the finality provider is exported
> (run all commands of this file).

### Setup Finality Provider Daemon

The finality provider daemon (fpd) is responsible for polling consumer chain blocks

> and providing finality signatures if it has voting power. To initialize the `fpd`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and providing finality signatures if it is in the active finality provider set.
To initialize the `fpd`
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/5d51cd265c9fd1ba3096f6365f223e61af64881b

are available, by default `test` is used.
- `--passphrase` sets a password to encrypt the keys, this is a optional flag with no defaults.
- `--hd-path` defines the hd path to use for derivation of the private key.

```shell
$ fpd keys add --home ./export-fp/fpd --chain-id babylon-1 --key-name finality-provider --keyring-backend os
New key for the consumer chain is created (mnemonic should be kept in a safe place for recovery):
{
  "name": "finality-provider",
  "address": "bbn1d54vq462hyh0jj07hmxrn2p59p4axn5mwlzqeu",
  "mnemonic": "bad mnemonic actress issue error swap sphere excuse anxiety machine meat immense rebuild adapt color push polar decorate poverty material skin wear battle zebra"
}
```

> Creates one key pair identified by the key name `finality-provider`.
> Store safely the mnemonic and generated keys.
> The added key will be used to create the proof-of-possession (pop) of the finality provider.
> For production enviroments, make sure to select a proper [backend keyring](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.45/run-node/keyring.html#available-backends-for-the-keyring)
, one of `[os, file, pass, kwallet]`.

> After the setup of the configuration and key to be used, start the `fpd` daemon with the command `fpd start` with no babylon chain `--no-bbn`.

Reviewer 2: Should we say why no Babylon chain is needed?

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/1892c9ae733df3e0c17cbc8be3c84b8cdc5f0a67

> The home golder should point to the work directory previously created with `fpd init`

Reviewer 2: The above need to be wrapped to 80 char lines

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/deb3c487d0427149bfe20f99f0f04fc7dff1f1b8
https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/5d51cd265c9fd1ba3096f6365f223e61af64881b

```shell
$ fpd start --home ./export-fp/fpd --no-bbn
2024-04-22T10:15:42.548999Z     info    successfully connected to a remote EOTS manager     {"address": "127.0.0.1:12582"}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577365Z     info    Starting FinalityProviderApp
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577481Z     info    starting metrics update loop{"interval seconds": 0.1}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577589Z     info    RPC server listening    {"address": "127.0.0.1:12581"}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577625Z     info    Finality Provider Daemon is fully active!
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577610Z     info    Metrics server is starting {"addr": "127.0.0.1:2112"}
```

## Create a Finality Provider

After the setup and start of `eots` and `fdp`, to interact with the `fpd`

> daemon, it is used the `fpcli`. To create the finality provider, run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
daemon, you can use the `fpcli` utility. To create the finality provider, run
```

Author: https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/0a0e83ee02d41ccf9607118a7732af5274e6b257

`fpcli create-finality-provider`.

> > Obs.: This command does not send a transaction to babylon chain `babylond tx btcstaking create-finality-provider`.

Reviewer 2: I don't get this line, why do we specify the babylon cli here?

    "btc_sig": "sHLpEHVTyTp9K55oeHxnPlkV4unc/r1obqzKn5S1gq95oXA3AgL1jyCzd/mGb23RfKbEyABjYUdcIBtZ02l5jg=="
  }
}
```

> store the `btc_pk_hex` value to be used in the export command.

## Export a Finality Provider

Finally, after the creation of the finality provider, to export the finality
provider, run `fpcli export-finality-provider`.
This command connects with the `fpd` daemon to load the finality provider previously
created using the flag `--btc-pk`.

This command also has several flag options.:

- `--btc-pk` the hex string of the BTC public key.
- `--signed` signs the finality provider as a proof of a untempered exported data.
- `--key-name` mandatory as it identifies the name for the key to use on fpd creation.
- `--home` flag needs to be the same as used in the `fpd init` command,
to load the configuration.
- `--passphrase` the password used to encrypt the key.
- `--hd-path` the hd derivation path of the private key.

```shell
$ fpcli export-finality-provider --btc-pk 25d13990ce6175dc5b5901cdaceb07e337b9b2a6aa39d0f6ae0ad75738dff7c1 \
--home ./export-fp/fpd --key-name finality-provider \
--signed
```

> The expected result is a finality with 5% comission exported:

Reviewer 2: Why do we specify the commission here? Someone might think that we always output 5% commission. I would remove it.

Author: removed at https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/pull/286/commits/0c72c3bd18cec397af881f69eb228fcb5d5a1831

# Finality Provider Export

Finality providers are responsible for voting at a finality round on top of
CometBFT that is powered by BTC stake. Similar to any native PoS validator,
finality providers can receive voting power delegations from BTC stakers, and
through their voting power provide economic security to the underlying PoS protocol.
In this document, we explore how someone can create a finality provider and
export details about it in JSON format.

## Prerequisite

### Install binaries

[Follow these instructions](../README.md#2-installation) to install the binaries.

- `eotsd`: EOTS manager daemon to create and manage EOTS keys for each finality
provider and provide finality signatures.
- `fpd`: Finality provider daemon to host the finality provider instance.
- `fpcli`: User interface of the finality provider that requires `eotsd` or `fpd`
is running.

### Setup EOTS manager daemon

We need the EOTS manager daemon (`eotsd`) to create and manage EOTS keys for each
finality provider. To initialize the `eotsd` work directory, run `eotsd init`.

> It creates the default home location, unless `--home` flag is specified.

Reviewer 2: What's the default home location?

Author: $HOME/.eotsd

```shell
$ eotsd init --home ./export-fp/eots
$ ls ./export-fp/eots
data/  eotsd.conf  logs/
```

> Creates the config file and two directories for logs and data.

After the setup of `eots` config, update the `DBPath` config property of
`[dbconfig]` in `./export-fp/eots/eotsd.conf` to the data directory created inside
`finality-provider/export-fp/eots/data`. To store all the data in one place for easy backup.

![image](https://github.com/babylonchain/finality-provider/assets/17556614/5a510281-7fa2-4d9c-a3e6-13e8263b4a71)

After the proper configuration, start the eots daemon with the command `eotsd start`.
The home folder should point to the work directory previously created with `eotsd init`.

```shell
$ eotsd start --home ./export-fp/eots
2024-04-17T16:52:10.553893Z     info    Metrics server is starting      {"addr": "127.0.0.1:2113"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554021Z     info    RPC server listening    {"address": "127.0.0.1:12582"}
2024-04-17T16:52:10.554061Z     info    EOTS Manager Daemon is fully active!
```

> > Starts the eots process that can be turned down after the finality provider
> > is exported (run all commands of this file).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> The eots process can be turned down after this guide is completed
> if the goal is to just export the finality provider and not connect it to a PoS chain.
```

### Setup Finality Provider Daemon

> The finality provider daemon (fpd) is responsible for polling consumer chain blocks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The finality provider daemon (`fpd`) is responsible for polling consumer chain blocks
```

to load the configuration.
- `--keyring-backend` specifies the keyring options, any of `[file, os, kwallet, test, pass, memory]`
are available, by default `test` is used.
- `--passphrase` sets a password to encrypt the keys, this is a optional flag
with no defaults.
- `--hd-path` defines the hd path to use for derivation of the private key.

```shell
$ fpd keys add --home ./export-fp/fpd --chain-id babylon-1 --key-name finality-provider --keyring-backend file
Enter keyring passphrase (attempt 1/3): ...
Re-enter keyring passphrase: ...
New key for the consumer chain is created (mnemonic should be kept in a safe place for recovery):
{
  "name": "finality-provider",
  "address": "bbn1d54vq462hyh0jj07hmxrn2p59p4axn5mwlzqeu",
  "mnemonic": "bad mnemonic actress issue error swap sphere excuse anxiety machine meat immense rebuild adapt color push polar decorate poverty material skin wear battle zebra"
}
```

**⚠ Store safely the mnemonic and generated keys.**

> Creates one key pair identified by the key name `finality-provider`.
> The added key will be used to create the proof-of-possession (pop)
> of the finality provider.
> For production enviroments, make sure to select a proper

> [backend keyring](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.45/run-node/keyring.html#available-backends-for-the-keyring)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[keyring backend](https://docs.cosmos.network/v0.45/run-node/keyring.html#available-backends-for-the-keyring)
```

> , one of `[os, file, pass, kwallet]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
, i.e. one of `[os, file, pass, kwallet]`.
```

After the setup of the configuration and key to be used, start the `fpd` daemon

> with the command `fpd start` with no chain backend `--no-chain-backend`.
> No chain backend is needed to create and export the finality provider information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the command `fpd start`. If you want to just export the finality provider info without
connecting to a PoS chain, then you can use the flag `--no-chain-backend`.
```

Don't think `--no-chain-backend` is a pre-requisite for exporting, right?

The `fpd` daemon only needs to connect to the backend blockchain to consume blocks
and verify if the finality provider is active to provide finality signatures.
The home folder should point to the work directory previously created with `fpd init`

```shell
$ fpd start --home ./export-fp/fpd --no-chain-backend
2024-04-22T10:15:42.548999Z     info    successfully connected to a remote EOTS manager     {"address": "127.0.0.1:12582"}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577365Z     info    Starting FinalityProviderApp
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577481Z     info    starting metrics update loop{"interval seconds": 0.1}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577589Z     info    RPC server listening    {"address": "127.0.0.1:12581"}
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577625Z     info    Finality Provider Daemon is fully active!
2024-04-22T10:15:42.577610Z     info    Metrics server is starting {"addr": "127.0.0.1:2112"}
```

## Create a Finality Provider

> After the setup and start of `eots` and `fdp`, to interact with the `fpd`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the setup and start of `eots` and `fpd`, to interact with the `fpd`
```

daemon, you can use the `fpcli` utility. To create the finality provider,
run `fpcli create-finality-provider`.

> > Obs.: This command does not send a transaction to babylon chain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Obs.: This command only registers the finality provider in the local `fpd` database and not to the Babylon chain, meaning that it can be ran without a connection to it.
```

--chain-id babylon-1 --commission 0.05 --moniker my-fp-nickname --identity anyIdentity \
--website www.my-public-available-website.com --security-contact your.email@gmail.com \
--details 'other overall info'

{
  "chain_pk_hex": "02d3c46a006a55050bea8834a87f87e38a457fda7759c1c0bdafb30b6fbbe17f29",
  "btc_pk_hex": "25d13990ce6175dc5b5901cdaceb07e337b9b2a6aa39d0f6ae0ad75738dff7c1",
  "description": {
    "moniker": "my-fp-nickname",
    "identity": "anyIdentity",
    "website": "www.my-public-available-website.com",
    "security_contact": "your.email@gmail.com",
    "details": "other overall info"
  },
  "commission": "0.050000000000000000",
  "registered_epoch": 18446744073709551615,
  "master_pub_rand": "xpub661MyMwAqRbcFLhUq9uPM7GncSytVZvoNg4w7LLx1Y74GeeAZerkpV1amvGBTcw4ECmrwFsTNMNf1LFBKkA2pmd8aJ5Jmp8uKD5xgVSezBq",
  "status": "CREATED",
  "pop": {
    "chain_sig": "sAg34vImQTFVlZYsziw9PCCKDuRyZv38V2MX8Ij9fQhyOdpxCUZ1VEgpSlwV/dbnpDs1UOez8Ni9EcbADkmnBA==",
    "btc_sig": "sHLpEHVTyTp9K55oeHxnPlkV4unc/r1obqzKn5S1gq95oXA3AgL1jyCzd/mGb23RfKbEyABjYUdcIBtZ02l5jg=="
  }
}
```

> store the `btc_pk_hex` value to be used in the export command.

## Export a Finality Provider

> Finally, after the creation of the finality provider, to export the finality

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, after the creation of the finality provider in the local db, to export the finality
```

provider, run `fpcli export-finality-provider`. This command connects with the

> `fpd` daemon to load the finality provider previously created using the flag `--btc-pk`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fpd` daemon to load the finality provider previously created using the flag `--btc-pk`
to specify the BTC public key that acts as the unique identifier for it.
```

> This command also has several flag options.:

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we specify `--keyring-backend` as well here?

- `--btc-pk` the hex string of the BTC public key.
- `--signed` signs the finality provider as a proof of a untempered exported data.

> - `--key-name` mandatory as it identifies the name for the key to use on fpd creation.

Reviewer 2: Why is `key-name` and not `btc-pk` the mandatory flag? I would expect that we can find the finality provider just with the `--btc-pk`.

--home ./export-fp/fpd --key-name finality-provider \
--signed
```

The expected result is a finality with signature exported:

```json
{
  "description": {
    "moniker": "my-fp-nickname",
    "identity": "anyIdentity",
    "website": "www.my-public-available-website.com",
    "security_contact": "your.email@gmail.com",
    "details": "other overall info"
  },
  "commission": "0.050000000000000000",
  "babylon_pk": {
    "key": "AtPEagBqVQUL6og0qH+H44pFf9p3WcHAva+zC2+74X8p"
  },
  "btc_pk": "25d13990ce6175dc5b5901cdaceb07e337b9b2a6aa39d0f6ae0ad75738dff7c1",
  "pop": {
    "babylon_sig": "sAg34vImQTFVlZYsziw9PCCKDuRyZv38V2MX8Ij9fQhyOdpxCUZ1VEgpSlwV/dbnpDs1UOez8Ni9EcbADkmnBA==",
    "btc_sig": "sHLpEHVTyTp9K55oeHxnPlkV4unc/r1obqzKn5S1gq95oXA3AgL1jyCzd/mGb23RfKbEyABjYUdcIBtZ02l5jg=="
  },
  "master_pub_rand": "xpub661MyMwAqRbcFLhUq9uPM7GncSytVZvoNg4w7LLx1Y74GeeAZerkpV1amvGBTcw4ECmrwFsTNMNf1LFBKkA2pmd8aJ5Jmp8uKD5xgVSezBq",
  "fp_sig_hex": "8ded8158bf65d492c5c6d1ff61c04a2176da9c55ea92dcce5638d11a177b999732a094db186964ab1b73c6a69aaa664672a36620dedb9da41c05e88ad981edda"
}
```

> The eots manager (`eotsd start`) can be turned down.
> The fpd daemon (`fpd start`) can be turned down.

> > Keep the database folders of `eots` and `fpd` securely stored as it contains
> information that will be used latter for running the finality provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In the case that there is no Babylon chain running, but you intend to connect to it
once it is up, you should keep the database folders of `eotsd` and `fpd` securely stored
as they are necessary for retrieving your finality provider and registering it with the chain.
```

Author: file removed

## Security considerations

All the generated files and keyring must be stored in a secure place for latter usage.
If any keys are lost, BTC or backend chain the finality provider will not be able
to start the chain with BTC delegations prior genesis block and all the BTC locked
in the finality provider that lost his keys will not be providing security
and by consequent, not earn any rewards.

The recommendation is to safely store the entire `./export-fp` directory
that compress occupies roughly 5kb. To compress, run the following command:

```shell
tar czf backup-exported-fpd.tar.gz ./export-fp
```

> ⚠ Keep the compressed directory stored securely.

Author: New section that explains what happens if the keys are lost, should I mention that no BTC would be lost even if the finality provider lost the keys? 
@vitsalis
